Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we aren't going to be enabling a guarding behavior where if the guard tries to come
after us and I escape him he goes back to his original guarding position like the good God that he is.
So let's dive in and how we can see how we can achieve this okay.
So what do we want to achieve with this A.I..
The current thing that it does that I think is a little bit weird is they come up to attack you.
But when they lose sight of you they just stand wherever you lead them to.
They're not very good guards in that sense right.
They should be guarding whatever they were left to God.
So these guys were guarding the path I can take them away and just take them on a wild goose chase and
then leave the path completely clear for me to run down.
That's not what we want to do.
We want them to go back to the original position they started off at.
Now if you think about it.
An A.I. controller is a little bit like the AIS mind.
So any state that we put in here excluding things like cache variables here things that we've got hold
of once just to save us time.
But there is also states which we currently do not have.
But if there were any state it's basically like that A.I. is memory.
I'd like to think of that.
And that's what we're gonna do.
We're going to be using memory basically like this.
And the idea here is we won that God to remember what location it's supposed to be guarding.
So I'm going to have a vector 3 called God location
which initially isn't going to be set to anything but we are going to update that with the transform
that we start with basically where we are put it the beginning is where we're going to God.
We could have it for example as a serialized field but not in this case.
So we're going to have a god location equal to the transform dot position like so.
So the god location in fact this is a little bit confusing that's location that's position.
I'm just gonna use consistent terminology and rename use the F 2 to rename God position.
So this guard position is where we want to return to.
So challenge for you.
When should I decide to return to its post and what do you need to call in order to make the ally do
that.
Remember that we are calling the same things as our player is able to call so pause video and have a
go.
If you feel ready otherwise I've got a hint coming for you in just a second.
You can always come back and just watch the hint.
If you're struggling OK so the hint is that what you're going to need to call is move it.
Don't stop.
Move.
Action.
I'm not telling you what goes in the brackets that you can work out for yourself.
So give this a go OK now I'm going to give it a shot.
So where do we need to cool this at the moment when we are attacking when we can attack.
We attack and otherwise we cancel and just stop where we are.
But what if instead of cancelling we got hold of a reference to our mover.
So I'm going to add a reference for the movie script.
I think this is going to need the movement name space including which is okay.
The controller does need to control the movement namespace and then I'm going to do the get components
like so and then the mover we can use instead of cancelling the fighter directly.
We can use the move to start a move action because we know that starting a move action automatically
cancels the fighting action and then where do we want to go to.
Well that is quite clear that we want to go to the guard position that we left off.
So quite simple.
All in all but it brings out some of the ideas around how we want to deal with state and how we want
to think about state in A.I..
So this guy comes and attacks me comes off his post then I leave and he goes back to his post automatic.
Now that looks a little bit odd because surely God wouldn't instantly forget about me the second I go
out of his radius of interest and just go back to his post.
So we're going to be working with suspicion in the next lecture and I'll see that.